Duel game rules
------------------

adapted: 24.01.2010 Author: Roland Studer


 At the beginning of the game, the 9 dice of both opponents are
in a well-defined starting line-up in rows 1 and 8.
The king's die lies in the middle of the row and the
other dice are positioned in such a way that theyupwards
show the values ??6-2-1-5when you look from the king towards
the side of the playing field looks. They all point
with the value 4 inside the playing field. The game is opened
by the player with the white dice.

 A move is made by the player whose
turn it is to fold one of his dice across the playing field from
one field to the other, as often as the number of
eyes at the top of the cube indicate at the beginning of a move. During 
a turn, the direction may be changed anywhere by ninety degrees
, but only once per turn. Forward-
backward combinations and diagonal moves are not allowed.

 A cube can be moved either by entering alphanumeric text
or with the mouse. The first case will belater
described. If you use the mouse, the symbolwithin
of which remains in the shape of a pointerthe playing field, you move
it onto the cube to be folded, then press the left
mouse button and hold it down until the end of the move
(the mouse symbol becomes displayed as a 'clamshell pointer'). There
are all motion directions and the final
position of a train checked by the program. Every move
, regardless of whether it was made by the player or by the computer, is displayed in the move, if
notation mentioned later
(anddesired, also logged by the program on a file). 

 The king's die can be moved in all four directions, but only by 
one space. None of the dice may beover a
foldedspace that is occupied by another dice
. A player tries tothe opponent's power
reduceby hitting their dice. This can be done
if there is an opponent's die on the end of the move
. In this case the hit die isfrom the
removedplaying field. But hitting is not a must. The king
himself may also take opposing dice.

 A DUEL game is won if one of the three following
conditions is met:
  - If the attacked opposing king can no longerto
    movea square where he cannot be
    captured or he can no longer be covered by his own piece
    .
  - If a king can reach the starting square of the opposing king
    (even if he would then be captured there).
  - If all opposing dice including the king
    are included, so that no move or only one move can be made, aftercan be captured
    which the king.
 In contrast to chess, with these rules there is no undecided
game through 'PATT' or 'REMIS'.

 If you attack the opposing king, this must be indicated to the
opponent with 'DUEL' (corresponding to 'CHESS'), if you can
even defeat the opposing king in the next move with
'DUEL-MATT' (corresponding to 'CHESS MATT') become.
This is done by clicking once (for 'DUEL') or
double clicking (for 'DUELL-MATT') the right mouse button
in the end position of a move, as long as the left mouse button is
still held down and as a mouse Pointer still the
'folding pointer' is visible. In the text input mode (or with
the computer trains) this iswithat the end of the input line
marked'+' or '++'.

 For all dice on the playing field, five
values ??are displayed, namely the values ??on top with their
corresponding number (i.e. how far a diceat a time
can move) and all fouron the sides of the dice 
valuesby means of digits a new
cube value can be calculated in advance. A side of the dice
is not visible, but can be calculated simply by
adding the value on top to 7, because with
a regular dice the values ??1 + 6, 2 + 5 and 3 + 4 are opposite each
other (by the way, the Valuesin a
1, 2, 3 and 4, 5, 6 are arrangedcounter-clockwise direction, if you look at the cube from the
corresponding corners).


 As mentioned above, you can also play DUEL by entering
alphanumeric text if you don'tthe dice with the
want to foldmouse. The move notation in text input mode,
which also applies to all move outputs from the computer, is
described below:

 The notation for the moves in the game DUEL is similar to
that in chess. The playing field is divided into eight
rows, numbered 1 to 8, and nine columns, labeled
A to I. Because in DUEL you can usually move in two ways from
a starting field to the target field, ie first vertically
and then horizontally, or conversely, the two possibilities of
the train are differentiated by lower or upper case
letters. An uppercase letter marks a column
along which a cube is folded, while a lowercase
letter means that the corresponding column isby the cube
only crossed.

To Better explain this It goes like this lowercase for row and Uppercase for Column. This matters because depending on how you move it changes what face ends up Upwards. you also can just drag and drop your pieces.

 Between the start and end position of a move there ismove is made
either '-' when a normalor 'x' when a die is
hit. As already mentioned, at the end of an input
line there must be '+' for 'DUEL' and '++' for 'DUELL-MATT'


 Examples: D1-e6
            H1-H2
            F1-e6 +
            e3xh3
            A1-b4
            a1-B4
            I1-h5 ++


               !!!!! And now good luck !!!!!


